#labels Phase-Support
Issue: How do I install Navi-X?

Explanation: 

On XBMC:

1. Go to www.navi-x.org and click on "Downloads" then click the button that says "Download Navi-X" and save the file to your computers desktop.

2. Install XBMC on your computer if you have not already. You can get the latest "stable" and "unstable" builds at http://xbmc.org/download/

3. Once XBMC is installed open it and click on "System", then "Addons" and "Install from Zip File". Select the location on your computer where you saved Navi-X and select the zip file. Navi-X should now be available in XBMC under "Programs".
{{{
}}}
On Boxee:

1. Install Boxee on your computer or turn on your Boxee Box. You can get the latest updated software at http://boxee.tv/download/

2. At the main screen for Boxee, click on Apps > Repositories and add the following repository address:

http://tinyurl.com/navixforboxee
OR
http://navi-x.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/boxee

3. Click on "The Navi-X for Boxee Repository on GoogleCode" then click "Navi-X" to view the app description. Press left or right until "Favorite" is highlighted, then click on it to save the app to your favorites under Apps in Boxee.

To update Navi-X, simply grab the latest copy on our website for XBMC. Boxee will always have the latest version available when it is released.
{{{
}}}
On Apple TV, iPad, iPhone and iOS supported devices :

1. Jailbreak your Apple TV (or iOS device) and install XBMC. You can get details on how to do this from Google.

2. Once your Apple TV is jailbroken and has XBMC on it, you need to SSH and upload Navi-X to your iOS device in a folder that can be accessed by XBMC's file explorer. Here is a video detailing how to SSH into your Apple TV (iOS device) and upload files to your device. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3x_pyFy1cI0

3. Once the Navi-X.zip file is uploaded to your iOS device, open XBMC on your iOS device and go to System > Addons > Install from Zip file. Browse to the location on your device you uploaded the Navi-X.zip file to and select it to install Navi-X.

4. Exit to the main screen of XBMC and check out "Programs"... Navi-X should be installed there. Make sure you always use the latest version of Navi-X and the latest "stable" version of XBMC, located in the primary download page for XBMC. 